RHIDP-3794 - update Authentication book introduction (#460)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: assemblies/assembly-enabling-authentication.adoc

[id='enabling-authentication']
= Enabling authentication in {product}

> The chances are high that in your organization, you must identify and authorize users before giving them access to resources, such as {product}.

Author: ```suggestion
Depending on your organization's security policies, you might require to identify and authorize users before giving them access to resources, such as {product}.
```

{product-short} supports following authentication providers:

* Red Hat Single-Sign On (RHSSO)
* GitHub
* Microsoft Azure

To identify users in {product-short}, configure:

* One (and only one) authentication provider for sign-in and identification.
* Optionally, additional authentication providers for identification, to add more information to the user identity, or enable access to additional external resources.

For each authentication provider, set up the shared secret that the authentication provider and {product-short} require to communicate, first in the authentication provider, then in {product-short}.

{product-short} uses an internal user catalog to store user identity information.

To explore the authentication system and use {product-short} without authorization policies, you can bypass the user catalog and start using {product-short} without provisioning the {product-short} user catalog.

To get, store, and update additional user information, such as group or team ownership, with the intention to use this data to define authorization policies, provision users and groups in the {product-short} catalog.

> {product-short} uses a one-way synchronization system to provision users and groups from your authentication system to the {product-short} user catalog.

Reviewer: @themr0c Could we place this under the "Important" tag?
```suggestion
[IMPORTANT]
====
{product-short} uses a one-way synchronization system to provision users and groups from your authentication system to the {product-short} user catalog.
====
```

Author: Implermented, but added the second sentence too.

> {product-short} uses a one-way synchronization system to provision users and groups from your authentication system to the {product-short} user catalog.
> Therefore, deleting users and groups by using {product-short} Web UI or REST API might have unintended consequences.

Author: ```suggestion
[IMPORTANT]
====
{product-short} uses a one-way synchronization system to provision users and groups from your authentication system to the {product-short} user catalog.
Therefore, deleting users and groups by using {product-short} Web UI or REST API might have unintended consequences.
====
```

[id='enabling-authentication']
= Enabling authentication in {product}

Depending on your organization's security policies, you might require to identify and authorize users before giving them access to resources, such as {product}.

In {product-short}, authentication and authorization are two separate processes:

. Authentication defines the user identity, and passes on this information to {product-short}.
Read following chapters to configure authentication in {product-short}.

. Authorization defines what the authenticated identity can access or do in {product-short}.
See link:{authorization-book-url}[{authorization-book-title}].

> To explore {product-short} features, you can enable the guest user to skip configuring authentication and authorization, log in as the guest user, and access all the features.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if it's better to add this under a `Note: Not recommended for Production`

> To explore {product-short} features, you can enable the guest user to skip configuring authentication and authorization, log in as the guest user and access all the features.

Author: ```suggestion
To explore {product-short} features, you can enable the guest user to skip configuring authentication and authorization, log in as the guest user, and access all the features.
```

The authentication system in {product-short} is handled by external authentication providers.

{product-short} supports following authentication providers:

* Red Hat Single-Sign On (RHSSO)
* GitHub
* Microsoft Azure

To identify users in {product-short}, configure:

* One (and only one) authentication provider for sign-in and identification.
* Optionally, additional authentication providers for identification, to add more information to the user identity, or enable access to additional external resources.

For each authentication provider, set up the shared secret that the authentication provider and {product-short} require to communicate, first in the authentication provider, then in {product-short}.

{product-short} stores user identity information in the {product-short} software catalog.

> To explore the authentication system and use {product-short} without authorization policies, you can bypass the {product-short} software catalog and start using {product-short} without provisioning the {product-short} software catalog.

Reviewer 2: Similar to the previous comment, can we call this out as a `Note: Not recommended for Production`?

[id='enabling-authentication']
= Enabling authentication in {product}

Depending on your organization's security policies, you might require to identify and authorize users before giving them access to resources, such as {product}.

In {product-short}, authentication and authorization are two separate processes:

. Authentication defines the user identity, and passes on this information to {product-short}.
Read following chapters to configure authentication in {product-short}.

. Authorization defines what the authenticated identity can access or do in {product-short}.
See link:{authorization-book-url}[{authorization-book-title}].

> To explore {product-short} features, you can skip configuring authentication and authorization. 
> After the default installation, you can log in as a Guest user and access all the features.

Author: ```suggestion
To explore {product-short} features, you can enable the guest user to skip configuring authentication and authorization, log in as the guest user and access all the features.
```

The authentication system in {product-short} is handled by external authentication providers.

{product-short} supports following authentication providers:

* Red Hat Single-Sign On (RHSSO)
* GitHub
* Microsoft Azure

To identify users in {product-short}, configure:

* One (and only one) authentication provider for sign-in and identification.
* Optionally, additional authentication providers for identification, to add more information to the user identity, or enable access to additional external resources.

For each authentication provider, set up the shared secret that the authentication provider and {product-short} require to communicate, first in the authentication provider, then in {product-short}.

> {product-short} uses an internal user catalog to store user identity information.

Author: ```suggestion
{product-short} stores user identity information in the {product-short} software catalog.
```

> To explore the authentication system and use {product-short} without authorization policies, you can bypass the user catalog and start using {product-short} without provisioning the {product-short} user catalog.

Author: ```suggestion
To explore the authentication system and use {product-short} without authorization policies, you can bypass the {product-short} software catalog and start using {product-short} without provisioning the {product-short} software catalog.
```

> To get, store, and update additional user information, such as group or team ownership, with the intention to use this data to define authorization policies, provision users and groups in the {product-short} catalog.

Author: ```suggestion
To get, store, and update additional user information, such as group or team ownership, with the intention to use this data to define authorization policies, provision users and groups in the {product-short} software catalog.
```

[id='enabling-authentication']
= Enabling authentication in {product}

The chances are high that in your organization, you must identify and authorize users before giving them access to resources, such as {product}.

In {product-short}, authentication and authorization are two separate processes:

. Authentication defines the user identity, and passes on this information to {product-short}.
Read following chapters to configure authentication in {product-short}.

. Authorization defines what the authenticated identity can access or do in {product-short}.
See link:{authorization-book-url}[{authorization-book-title}].

To explore {product-short} features, you can skip configuring authentication and authorization. 
After the default installation, you can log in as a Guest user and access all the features.

The authentication system in {product-short} is handled by external authentication providers.

{product-short} supports following authentication providers:

* Red Hat Single-Sign On (RHSSO)
* GitHub
* Microsoft Azure

> To identify users in {product-short}, configure:
> 
> * One (and only one) authentication provider for sign-in and identification.
> * Optionally, additional authentication providers for identification.
> 
> For each authentication provider, set up the shared secret that the authentication provider and {product-short} require to communicate, first in the authentication provider, then in {product-short}.
> 
> Optionally, to add more information to the user identity, or enable access to additional external resources, configure additional providers for identification.
> 
> You can use only one provider to sign in.

Author: ```suggestion
To identify users in {product-short}, configure:

* One (and only one) authentication provider for sign-in and identification.
* Optionally, additional authentication providers for identification, to add more information to the user identity, or enable access to additional external resources.

For each authentication provider, set up the shared secret that the authentication provider and {product-short} require to communicate, first in the authentication provider, then in {product-short}.
```

[id='enabling-authentication']
= Enabling authentication in {product}

Depending on your organization's security policies, you might require to identify and authorize users before giving them access to resources, such as {product}.

In {product-short}, authentication and authorization are two separate processes:

. Authentication defines the user identity, and passes on this information to {product-short}.

> Read following chapters to configure authentication in {product-short}.

Reviewer 3: "Read the following chapters to configure authentication in {product-short}."

. Authorization defines what the authenticated identity can access or do in {product-short}.
See link:{authorization-book-url}[{authorization-book-title}].

[TIP]
.Not recommended for production
====
To explore {product-short} features, you can enable the guest user to skip configuring authentication and authorization, log in as the guest user, and access all the features.
====

The authentication system in {product-short} is handled by external authentication providers.

{product-short} supports following authentication providers:

* Red Hat Single-Sign On (RHSSO)
* GitHub
* Microsoft Azure

To identify users in {product-short}, configure:

* One (and only one) authentication provider for sign-in and identification.

> * Optionally, additional authentication providers for identification, to add more information to the user identity, or enable access to additional external resources.

Reviewer 3: For my own edification/clarification: I need to only 1 authentication provide for sign-in and identification. But for enhance identification, I can add a 2nd authentication provider, correct?

Author: Yes

> For each authentication provider, set up the shared secret that the authentication provider and {product-short} require to communicate, first in the authentication provider, then in {product-short}.

Reviewer 3: Where do I setup the shared secret in {product-short}?

Author: first in the authentication provider, then in {product-short}.

[id='enabling-authentication']
= Enabling authentication in {product}

> Your organization certainly requires you to identify and authorize users to give them access to resources, such as {product}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can identify and authorize users to give them access to resources, such as {product}.
```

Author: The new sentence removes the fact that this is an hypothesis.

Author: Attempting a rewrite that clarifies that we are expressing an assumption:

```suggestion
The chances are high that in your organization, you must identify and authorize users before giving them access to resources, such as {product}.
```

> Your organization certainly requires you to identify and authorize users to give them access to resources, such as {product}.

Author: The new sentence removes the fact that this is an hypothesis.

In {product-short}, authentication and authorization are two separate processes:

> . Authentication is defining the user identity, and passing on this information to {product-short}.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Authorization defines what the authenticated party is allowed to do or access in {product-short}.
```
I'd suggest that this format is more concise.

Author: Replacing Authentication by Authorization is technically inaccurate.

Author: ```suggestion
. Authentication defines the user identity, and passes on this information to {product-short}.
```

> Read following chapters to progressively configure authentication in {product-short}.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Read following chapters to configure authentication in {product-short}.
```

Author: We would loose the notion of a progressive journey.

Author: OK, let's the remove the nuance at this point in the introduction, and add it later.

> . Authorization is defining what actions an authenticated identity can perform in {product-short}.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. Authorization defines what the authenticated user is allowed to do or access in {product-short}.
```

Author: This is introducing passive voice, and removing the nuance that authorization cares about an authenticated identity, and not about the user.

Author: ```suggestion
. Authorization defines what the authenticated identity can access or do in {product-short}.
```

> See link:{authorization-book-url}[{authorization-book-title}].

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For more information about user authorization in {product-short}, see link:{authorization-book-url}[{authorization-book-title}].
```

Author: This goes against minimalism.

> To explore {product-short} features, you can skip configuring authentication and authorization. After the default installation, you can log in as a Guest user and access all the features.

Author: ```suggestion
To explore {product-short} features, you can skip configuring authentication and authorization. 
After the default installation, you can log in as a Guest user and access all the features.
```

> To explore {product-short} features, you do not need to be concerned about authentication and authorization. After the default installation, you can log in as a Guest user and access all the features.

Author: ```suggestion
To explore {product-short} features, you can skip configuring authentication and authorization. After the default installation, you can log in as a Guest user and access all the features.
```

> To start exploring {product-short} features, do not worry about authentication and authorization: after the default installation, you can authenticate with the Guest user, and use all the application features.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
[NOTE]
====
To explore {product-short} features, you do not need to configure authentication and authorization. By default, {product-short} allows you to authenticate with the Guest user which enables you to access authorized features associated with the guest user role.
====
```
I'd suggest rephrasing this content and perhaps making it a note. I wouldn't tell the user to not worry about authorization and authorization. Also, I'm not sure what features the Guest user role allows but it's not "all application features" - maybe a SME has a better definition of what the Guest user role can access?

Author: This is not a note, this is the first step in the user journey.

> To start exploring {product-short} features, do not worry about authentication and authorization: after the default installation, you can authenticate with the Guest user, and use all the application features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To explore {product-short} features, you do not need to be concerned about authentication and authorization. After the default installation, you can log in as a Guest user and access all the features.
```

The authentication system in {product-short} is handled by external authentication providers.

{product-short} supports following authentication providers:

* Red Hat Single-Sign On (RHSSO)
* GitHub

> * Microsoft Azure

Reviewer 4: Should we link to the product docs for each of these providers?

Author: Probably yes, but in a subsequent PR, when all the restructure is done, to avoid adding unnecessary merge conflicts.

> To identify users in {product-short}, configure one authentication provider for sign-in and identification:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To identify users in {product-short}, configure an authentication provider for sign-in and identification:
```

Author: The define "one" is technically accurate: one and only one. "an" is undefined and looses clarity.

. Set up the shared secret that the authentication provider and {product} require to communicate.

. Configure {product} to use the authentication provider.

> Optionally, to add more information to the user identity, or enable access to additional external resources, configure additional providers for identification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Optionally, to add more information to the user identity, or enable access to additional external resources, configure additional providers for identification.
+
--
```

> You can use only one provider for sign-in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use only one provider to sign in.
--
```

> You can use only one provider for sign-in.

Reviewer 4: A user may find this a little confusing, we're talking about adding additional resources (what are these?) and configuring additional providers (I presume RHSSO, Github and Azure) but then correctly telling them to only use one provider. 

Maybe it could be clearer that they can configure multiple providers but only use one of these providers to sign-in?

> {product-short} is using an internal user catalog to store identity information about the users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{product-short} uses an internal user catalog to store user identity information.
```

> To explore the authentication system, and use {product-short} without authorization policies, you can bypass the user catalog, and start using {product-short} without provisioning the {product-short} user catalog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To explore the authentication system and use {product-short} without authorization policies, you can bypass the user catalog and start using {product-short} without provisioning the {product-short} user catalog.
```

> To get, store, and update additional information about the users, such as group or team ownership, with the intention to use this information to define authorization policies, provision users and groups in the {product-short} catalog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To retrieve, store, and update additional user information, such as group or team ownership, and use this data to define authorization policies, provision users and groups in the {product-short} catalog.
```

Author: Isn't "get" a simpler word than "retrieve"?

The notion of intention is important here.

Author: ```suggestion
To get, store, and update additional user informations, such as group or team ownership, with the intention to use this data to define authorization policies, provision users and groups in the {product-short} catalog.
```

> {product-short} uses a one way synchronization system to provision user and groups from your authentication system to the {product-short} user catalog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{product-short} uses a one-way synchronization system to provision users and groups from your authentication system to the {product-short} user catalog.
```

> Therefore, deleting users and groups by using {product-short} Web UI or REST API might have unintended consequences.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, deleting users and groups using {product-short} Web UI or REST API might have unintended consequences.
```

Author: Are you sure?

> Therefore, deleting users and groups by using {product-short} Web UI or REST API might have unintended consequences.

Reviewer 4: This section introduces the concept of a user catalog but as a user I may not know anything about what a user catalog is or what it does.

Could we provide a brief explanation or link to a section elsewhere in the product documentation that covers this concept? Also maybe include a paragraph heading to tie this collection of connected sentences together?

Author: Defined at line 34.

[id='enabling-authentication']
= Enabling authentication in {product}

The chances are high that in your organization, you must identify and authorize users before giving them access to resources, such as {product}.

In {product-short}, authentication and authorization are two separate processes:

. Authentication defines the user identity, and passes on this information to {product-short}.
Read following chapters to configure authentication in {product-short}.

. Authorization defines what the authenticated identity can access or do in {product-short}.
See link:{authorization-book-url}[{authorization-book-title}].

To explore {product-short} features, you can skip configuring authentication and authorization. 
After the default installation, you can log in as a Guest user and access all the features.

The authentication system in {product-short} is handled by external authentication providers.

{product-short} supports following authentication providers:

* Red Hat Single-Sign On (RHSSO)
* GitHub
* Microsoft Azure

> To identify users in {product-short}, configure one authentication provider for sign-in and identification:

Author: ```suggestion
To identify users in {product-short}, configure:

* One (and only one) authentication provider for sign-in and identification.
* Optionally, additional authentication providers for identification.

For each authentication provider:
```

In {product-short}, authentication and authorization are two separate processes:

. Authentication defines the user identity, and passes on this information to {product-short}.
Read following chapters to configure authentication in {product-short}.

. Authorization defines what the authenticated identity can access or do in {product-short}.
See link:{authorization-book-url}[{authorization-book-title}].

To explore {product-short} features, you do not need to be concerned about authentication and authorization. After the default installation, you can log in as a Guest user and access all the features.

The authentication system in {product-short} is handled by external authentication providers.

{product-short} supports following authentication providers:

* Red Hat Single-Sign On (RHSSO)
* GitHub
* Microsoft Azure

To identify users in {product-short}, configure one authentication provider for sign-in and identification:

. Set up the shared secret that the authentication provider and {product} require to communicate.

. Configure {product} to use the authentication provider.

> . Optionally, to add more information to the user identity, or enable access to additional external resources, configure additional providers for identification.

Author: It must be as same level than line 24.

```suggestion
Optionally, to add more information to the user identity, or enable access to additional external resources, configure additional providers for identification.
```

. Authentication defines the user identity, and passes on this information to {product-short}.
Read following chapters to configure authentication in {product-short}.

. Authorization defines what the authenticated identity can access or do in {product-short}.
See link:{authorization-book-url}[{authorization-book-title}].

To explore {product-short} features, you do not need to be concerned about authentication and authorization. After the default installation, you can log in as a Guest user and access all the features.

The authentication system in {product-short} is handled by external authentication providers.

{product-short} supports following authentication providers:

* Red Hat Single-Sign On (RHSSO)
* GitHub
* Microsoft Azure

To identify users in {product-short}, configure one authentication provider for sign-in and identification:

. Set up the shared secret that the authentication provider and {product} require to communicate.

. Configure {product} to use the authentication provider.

Optionally, to add more information to the user identity, or enable access to additional external resources, configure additional providers for identification.

> +
> --
> 
> You can use only one provider to sign in.
> --

Author: ```suggestion

You can use only one provider to sign in.
```

= Enabling authentication in {product}

The chances are high that in your organization, you must identify and authorize users before giving them access to resources, such as {product}.

In {product-short}, authentication and authorization are two separate processes:

. Authentication defines the user identity, and passes on this information to {product-short}.
Read following chapters to configure authentication in {product-short}.

. Authorization defines what the authenticated identity can access or do in {product-short}.
See link:{authorization-book-url}[{authorization-book-title}].

To explore {product-short} features, you can skip configuring authentication and authorization. 
After the default installation, you can log in as a Guest user and access all the features.

The authentication system in {product-short} is handled by external authentication providers.

{product-short} supports following authentication providers:

* Red Hat Single-Sign On (RHSSO)
* GitHub
* Microsoft Azure

To identify users in {product-short}, configure:

* One (and only one) authentication provider for sign-in and identification.
* Optionally, additional authentication providers for identification.

> For each authentication provider:
> 
> . Set up the shared secret that the authentication provider and {product} require to communicate.
> 
> . Configure {product} to use the authentication provider.

Author: ```suggestion
For each authentication provider, set up the shared secret that the authentication provider and {product-short} require to communicate, first in the authentication provider, then in {product-short}.
```
